content/blog/markdown/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Markdown examples"
date = 2023-01-31
updated = 2025-02-21
description = "This post showcases some examples of Markdown formatting, including a table, code blocks and tags, quotes, tables, and footnotes."

[taxonomies]
tags = ["markdown", "showcase"]

[extra]
katex = true
social_media_card = "social_cards/blog_markdown.jpg"
+++

## $\KaTeX$

[$\KaTeX$](https://katex.org/) is a fast and easy-to-use library that enables the rendering of mathematical notation, using LaTeX syntax.

You can use $\KaTeX$ **inline** by wrapping the expression between `$` or between `\\(` and `\\)`.

For example, `$ \sin(x) = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(-1)^n}{(2n + 1)!} x^{2n + 1} $` would render: $ \sin(x) = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(-1)^n}{(2n + 1)!} x^{2n + 1} $

To display the expression **on its own line and centered**, wrap it around `$$` or between `\\[` and `\\]`.

For example, `\\[ r = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})^2}\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(y_i - \bar{y})^2}} \\]` renders: \\[ r = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})^2}\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(y_i - \bar{y})^2}} \\]

To activate $\KaTeX$ for a post or an entire section, include `katex = true` within the `[extra]` section of the front matter. For exemple:

```toml,hl_lines=5-6
title = "Testing KaTeX"
date = 2002-11-30

[extra]
katex = true
```

You may enable it globally as well, by setting `katex = true` in the `[extra]` section of your `config.toml`.

For enhanced performance and security, the $\KaTeX$ JavaScript, CSS, and fonts are hosted locally.

**Note**: After enabling $\KaTeX$, if you want to use \$ without rendering a mathematical expression, escape it with a single backslash: `\$`.

## Table

Here's an example of a table[^1]. Its colours change depending on the current theme.

| Symbol  | Element | Atomic Number |
|---------|---------|---------------|
| H       | Hydrogen| 1             |
| C       | Carbon  | 6             |
| Fe      | Iron    | 26            |
| Au      | Gold    | 79            |

## Code Block

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!") -> ();
}
```

### With line numbers

```rust,linenos
use std::collections::HashMap;

#[derive(Debug)]
struct TwinPeaksCharacter {
    name: String,
    coffee_rating: f32,
    pie_preference: String,
}

fn main() {
    let mut black_lodge = HashMap::new();

    black_lodge.insert("agent", TwinPeaksCharacter {
        name: String::from("Dale Cooper"),
        coffee_rating: 9999.99,
        pie_preference: String::from("Damn Fine Cherry"),
    });

    black_lodge.insert("giant", TwinPeaksCharacter {
        name: String::from("The Fireman"),
        coffee_rating: 42.424242,
        pie_preference: String::from("Garmonbozia"),
    });

    // Calculate total appreciation of damn fine coffee
    let total_coffee: f32 = black_lodge.values()
        .map(|character| character.coffee_rating)
        .sum();

    println!("☕ Total coffee appreciation: {:.2} cups", total_coffee);
}
```

## Code tags

In Rust, you declare a mutable variable with `let mut x = 5;`, whereas in Python, you simply use `x = 5`. Similarly, to print a value in Rust, you would use `println!("Value: {}", x);`, but in Python, it's as straightforward as `print(f"Value: {x}")`.

## Quote

> "We're all hurtling towards death. Yet here we are, for the moment, alive. Each of us knowing we're going to die. Each of us secretly believing we won't."
>
> — Charlie Kaufman, Synecdoche, New York

---

[^1]: And here's an example of a footnote!

Commit message:

✨ feat: auto-load KaTeX's mchecm extension (#605)

content/blog/markdown/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Markdown examples"
date = 2023-01-31
updated = 2026-01-01
description = "This post showcases some examples of Markdown formatting, including a table, code blocks and tags, quotes, tables, and footnotes."

[taxonomies]
tags = ["markdown", "showcase"]

[extra]
katex = true
social_media_card = "social_cards/blog_markdown.jpg"
+++

## $\KaTeX$

[$\KaTeX$](https://katex.org/) is a fast and easy-to-use library that enables the rendering of mathematical notation, using LaTeX syntax.

You can use $\KaTeX$ **inline** by wrapping the expression between `$` or between `\\(` and `\\)`.

For example, `$ \sin(x) = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(-1)^n}{(2n + 1)!} x^{2n + 1} $` would render: $ \sin(x) = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{(-1)^n}{(2n + 1)!} x^{2n + 1} $

To display the expression **on its own line and centered**, wrap it around `$$` or between `\\[` and `\\]`.

For example, `\\[ r = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})^2}\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(y_i - \bar{y})^2}} \\]` renders: \\[ r = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(x_i - \bar{x})^2}\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}(y_i - \bar{y})^2}} \\]

Enable $\KaTeX$ by setting `katex = true` in `[extra]`:

```toml,hl_lines=5-6
title = "Testing KaTeX"
date = 2002-11-30

[extra]
katex = true
```

Works in: page front matter, section `_index.md`, or globally in `config.toml`.

For enhanced performance and security, the $\KaTeX$ JavaScript, CSS, and fonts are hosted locally.

**Note**: After enabling $\KaTeX$, if you want to use \$ without rendering a mathematical expression, escape it with a single backslash: `\$`.

### Chemistry formulas

Chemistry formulas are supported via the [mhchem extension](https://mhchem.github.io/MathJax-mhchem/), which loads automatically when using `\ce{}` or `\pu{}`.

`\ce{}` for chemistry: $\ce{H2O}$, $\ce{CO2 + H2O -> H2CO3}$

`\pu{}` for units: $\pu{25 °C}$, $\pu{1.2 mol/L}$

## Table

Here's an example of a table[^1]. Its colours change depending on the current theme.

| Symbol  | Element | Atomic Number |
|---------|---------|---------------|
| H       | Hydrogen| 1             |
| C       | Carbon  | 6             |
| Fe      | Iron    | 26            |
| Au      | Gold    | 79            |

## Code Block

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!") -> ();
}
```

### With line numbers

```rust,linenos
use std::collections::HashMap;

#[derive(Debug)]
struct TwinPeaksCharacter {
    name: String,
    coffee_rating: f32,
    pie_preference: String,
}

fn main() {
    let mut black_lodge = HashMap::new();

    black_lodge.insert("agent", TwinPeaksCharacter {
        name: String::from("Dale Cooper"),
        coffee_rating: 9999.99,
        pie_preference: String::from("Damn Fine Cherry"),
    });

    black_lodge.insert("giant", TwinPeaksCharacter {
        name: String::from("The Fireman"),
        coffee_rating: 42.424242,
        pie_preference: String::from("Garmonbozia"),
    });

    // Calculate total appreciation of damn fine coffee
    let total_coffee: f32 = black_lodge.values()
        .map(|character| character.coffee_rating)
        .sum();

    println!("☕ Total coffee appreciation: {:.2} cups", total_coffee);
}
```

## Code tags

In Rust, you declare a mutable variable with `let mut x = 5;`, whereas in Python, you simply use `x = 5`. Similarly, to print a value in Rust, you would use `println!("Value: {}", x);`, but in Python, it's as straightforward as `print(f"Value: {x}")`.

## Quote

> "We're all hurtling towards death. Yet here we are, for the moment, alive. Each of us knowing we're going to die. Each of us secretly believing we won't."
>
> — Charlie Kaufman, Synecdoche, New York

---

[^1]: And here's an example of a footnote!
