content/blog/customise-tabi/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Customise tabi with skins and a default theme"
date = 2023-08-09
updated = 2023-10-07
description = "Learn how to customise tabi using skins and setting a default theme, making your site uniquely yours."

[taxonomies]
tags = ["showcase", "tutorial"]

[extra]
toc = true
quick_navigation_buttons = true
social_media_card = "social_cards/blog_customise_tabi.jpg"
+++

tabi can be customised in two ways: by setting the default theme (dark or light) and by choosing the main colour for the theme (skins).

## Default theme

To permanently set your site to either the dark or light theme, you need to disable the theme switcher in `config.toml` and set your preferred theme as the `default_theme`.

For example, to have a permanent dark theme:

```toml
[extra]
theme_switcher = false
default_theme = "dark"
```

If your theme switcher is enabled, the `default_theme` will only be used as fallback, in case a visitor has JavaScript disabled.

## Skins

Not a fan of teal? No problem! tabi has 12 skins for you to choose from. If none of these work for you, you can [create your own](#create-your-own-skin).

A skin is a CSS file with two variables: the primary colour for the light theme, and the primary colour for the dark theme.

Enabling a skin is as easy as setting the `skin` variable in your `config.toml` with the name of the skin. For example:

```toml
[extra]
skin = "sakura"
```

Take a look below at the available skins below.

**Click on the images** to switch between dark and light themes.

<hr>

### Teal

The default skin. If the `skin` variable is unset (or set to `"teal"`), this is what tabi looks like:

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/teal_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/teal_dark.webp", default_alt="teal skin in light mode", toggled_alt="teal skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

<hr>

### Lavender

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lavender_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lavender_dark.webp", default_alt="lavender skin in light mode", toggled_alt="lavender skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To apply, use `skin = "lavender"`.


<hr>

### Red

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/red_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/red_dark.webp", default_alt="red skin in light mode", toggled_alt="red skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

Switch to this by setting `skin = "red"`.


<hr>

### Mint

A skin designed by 🅿️.

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/mint_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/mint_dark.webp", default_alt="mint skin in light mode", toggled_alt="mint skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

Activate it with `skin = "mint"`.


<hr>

### Sakura

Inspired by the Japanese cherry blossom season.

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/sakura_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/sakura_dark.webp", default_alt="sakura skin in light mode", toggled_alt="sakura skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To enable this skin, adjust `skin = "sakura"`.


<hr>

### Blue

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/blue_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/blue_dark.webp", default_alt="blue skin in light mode", toggled_alt="blue skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

For this appearance, set `skin = "blue"`.


<hr>

### Indigo Ingot

*Indigo* for blue (in light theme) and *ingot* for gold (in dark theme).

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/indigo_ingot_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/indigo_ingot_dark.webp", default_alt="indigo ingot skin in light mode", toggled_alt="indigo ingot skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To activate this skin, use `skin = "indigo_ingot"`.


<hr>

### Evangelion

Inspired by the colours of Evangelion Unit-01 (in dark theme) and Unit-02 (in light theme).

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/evangelion_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/evangelion_dark.webp", default_alt="evangelion skin in light mode", toggled_alt="evangelion skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}


<hr>

### Monochrome

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/monochrome_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/monochrome_dark.webp", default_alt="monochrome skin in light mode", toggled_alt="monochrome skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To achieve this look, set `skin = "monochrome"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast orange

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_orange_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_orange_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast orange skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast orange skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To use, set `skin = "lowcontrast_orange"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast peach

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_peach_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_peach_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast peach skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast peach skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To enable it, specify `skin = "lowcontrast_peach"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast pink

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_pink_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_pink_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast pink skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast pink skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

For this colourscheme, choose `skin = "lowcontrast_pink"`.


<hr>

### Create your own skin

You're not just limited to predefined skins. Why not create a look that's distinctively tailored to your preferences?

You can save your new skin it in either of these two directories:
1. Inside the theme's directory: `themes/tabi/sass/skins`
2. Inside your main site's directory: `sass/skins` (you'll need to create this folder)

Create a new `.scss` file (for example, `your_skin.scss`) in your preferred location. This file needs to have these two variables (this is the default skin, "teal"):

```scss
:root {
    --primary-color: #087e96;
}

[data-theme='dark'] {
    --primary-color: #91e0ee;
}
```

Modify the colours to your taste. Once you're satisfied, update the `skin` variable to match your filename.

Remember to consider the accessibility of the colours you choose. Here's a link that can help you: [WebAIM: Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/). The background of the light theme is `#fff`, and the dark one is `#1f1f1f`.

Commit message:

✨ feat(theme-switcher)!: respect `theme_default` when JS is enabled (#224)
BREAKING CHANGE: changes the behaviour of `theme_default`

content/blog/customise-tabi/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Customise tabi with skins and a default theme"
date = 2023-08-09
updated = 2023-11-24
description = "Learn how to customise tabi using skins and setting a default theme, making your site uniquely yours."

[taxonomies]
tags = ["showcase", "tutorial"]

[extra]
toc = true
quick_navigation_buttons = true
social_media_card = "social_cards/blog_customise_tabi.jpg"
+++

tabi can be customised in two ways: by setting the default theme (dark or light) and by choosing the main colour for the theme (skins).

## Default theme

Use `default_theme = "dark"` to set the dark theme as the default, or `default_theme = "light"` to set the light theme as the default.

To permanently set your site to either the dark or light theme, you need to disable the theme switcher in `config.toml` and set your preferred theme as the `default_theme`.

For example, to have a permanent dark theme:

```toml
[extra]
theme_switcher = false
default_theme = "dark"
```

## Skins

Not a fan of teal? No problem! tabi has 12 skins for you to choose from. If none of these work for you, you can [create your own](#create-your-own-skin).

A skin is a CSS file with two variables: the primary colour for the light theme, and the primary colour for the dark theme.

Enabling a skin is as easy as setting the `skin` variable in your `config.toml` with the name of the skin. For example:

```toml
[extra]
skin = "sakura"
```

Take a look below at the available skins below.

**Click on the images** to switch between dark and light themes.

<hr>

### Teal

The default skin. If the `skin` variable is unset (or set to `"teal"`), this is what tabi looks like:

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/teal_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/teal_dark.webp", default_alt="teal skin in light mode", toggled_alt="teal skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

<hr>

### Lavender

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lavender_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lavender_dark.webp", default_alt="lavender skin in light mode", toggled_alt="lavender skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To apply, use `skin = "lavender"`.


<hr>

### Red

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/red_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/red_dark.webp", default_alt="red skin in light mode", toggled_alt="red skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

Switch to this by setting `skin = "red"`.


<hr>

### Mint

A skin designed by 🅿️.

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/mint_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/mint_dark.webp", default_alt="mint skin in light mode", toggled_alt="mint skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

Activate it with `skin = "mint"`.


<hr>

### Sakura

Inspired by the Japanese cherry blossom season.

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/sakura_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/sakura_dark.webp", default_alt="sakura skin in light mode", toggled_alt="sakura skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To enable this skin, adjust `skin = "sakura"`.


<hr>

### Blue

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/blue_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/blue_dark.webp", default_alt="blue skin in light mode", toggled_alt="blue skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

For this appearance, set `skin = "blue"`.


<hr>

### Indigo Ingot

*Indigo* for blue (in light theme) and *ingot* for gold (in dark theme).

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/indigo_ingot_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/indigo_ingot_dark.webp", default_alt="indigo ingot skin in light mode", toggled_alt="indigo ingot skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To activate this skin, use `skin = "indigo_ingot"`.


<hr>

### Evangelion

Inspired by the colours of Evangelion Unit-01 (in dark theme) and Unit-02 (in light theme).

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/evangelion_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/evangelion_dark.webp", default_alt="evangelion skin in light mode", toggled_alt="evangelion skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}


<hr>

### Monochrome

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/monochrome_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/monochrome_dark.webp", default_alt="monochrome skin in light mode", toggled_alt="monochrome skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To achieve this look, set `skin = "monochrome"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast orange

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_orange_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_orange_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast orange skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast orange skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To use, set `skin = "lowcontrast_orange"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast peach

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_peach_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_peach_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast peach skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast peach skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

To enable it, specify `skin = "lowcontrast_peach"`.


<hr>

### Low contrast pink

**WARNING!** This skin's light theme may have [low contrast](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html), affecting accessibility and Lighthouse rating. (Dark theme is fine.)

{{ image_toggler(default_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_pink_light.webp", toggled_src="blog/customise-tabi/skins/lowcontrast_pink_dark.webp", default_alt="low contrast pink skin in light mode", toggled_alt="low contrast pink skin in dark mode", full_width=true) }}

For this colourscheme, choose `skin = "lowcontrast_pink"`.


<hr>

### Create your own skin

You're not just limited to predefined skins. Why not create a look that's distinctively tailored to your preferences?

You can save your new skin it in either of these two directories:
1. Inside the theme's directory: `themes/tabi/sass/skins`
2. Inside your main site's directory: `sass/skins` (you'll need to create this folder)

Create a new `.scss` file (for example, `your_skin.scss`) in your preferred location. This file needs to have these two variables (this is the default skin, "teal"):

```scss
:root {
    --primary-color: #087e96;
}

[data-theme='dark'] {
    --primary-color: #91e0ee;
}
```

Modify the colours to your taste. Once you're satisfied, update the `skin` variable to match your filename.

Remember to consider the accessibility of the colours you choose. Here's a link that can help you: [WebAIM: Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/). The background of the light theme is `#fff`, and the dark one is `#1f1f1f`.
